{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14460\viewh4420\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\tx0\pardeftab708\ri-11086\sl300\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 PYU001	SMALL STELA FROM HALINGYI
\b \
\pard\tx15120\pardeftab708\ri-11086\sl300\qj
\cf0 \

\b0 Pagan Archaeological Museum nr. 96\
IB, portfolio IV, CCCLVII (a)\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 PPPB
\i0 , pl. 52b\
Shafer p. 339
\b \
\pard\tx15120\pardeftab708\ri-11086\sl300\qj
\cf0 \
Text (Arlo Griffiths)\
\
(1) 
\b0 @|| \uc0\u7685 ay\'b7\u7745 \u7717  d\cf2 '\cf0 ak\'b7 v\cf2 '\cf0 iy\'b7\uc0\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  mlik\'b7 \'b0u sa\u7717  tg\cf2 '\cf0 a knon\'b7 \'b0u (p)li\cf3  \

\b \cf0 (2) 
\b0 \uc0\u7685 ay\'b7\u7745 \u7717  r\u363 \u7749 \'b7 \u7685 a hi \'b0u r\u363 p\'b7 ya\u7745  @ || @\
\

\b Variant readings
\b0  \
\cf4 Sastri (as reported in ASB 1915, 21\'9623) is less reliable than Blagden, reading <th> for <\uc0\u7685 > and <sh> for <m> and <p> and medial <l> as <\u7693 >. So we rarely cite him.\
1. 
\i tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  we read <t> rather than <n> here, agreeing with Blagden and Tha Myat. If so, then 
\i tg'a 
\i0 can be correct too. If so, then <t> in this inscription would be of the \'93loop\'94 type rather than the \'93cup\'94 type seen in other inscriptions. But comparison with PYU032 cautions us that even in a single inscription one may not necessarily expect a clear pattern in the discinction between <t> and <n>.\
1. 
\i knon\'b7
\i0  \uc0\u9671 
\i  k\'f1o\'f1
\i0  Blagden. \
1. 
\i [p]li
\i0  \uc0\u9671  photos such as IMG_8373 favor initial <p> over <m>:
\i  pli
\i0  \'91grandson\'92.\
2. 
\i r\uc0\u363 \u7749 \'b7 \'85 r\u363 p\'b7
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i n\uc0\u363  
\i0 \'85 
\i nu 
\i0 Blagden; 
\i tu+\'b0u\'b7
\i0  \'85 
\i tu+p 
\i0 Tha Myat. There is no contrast in this inscription between \'93r with leftwards stroke\'94 which we are interpreting as 
\i <
\i0 r\uc0\u363 > and \'93r with rightwards stroke\'94 which in other inscriptions represents <ru>. Note also two slightly different shapes of <r\u363 >, with and without loop at bottom; the first of them attested also in PYU006, where it was interpreted as 
\i bh\uc0\u363 
\i0  by Blagden; perhaps 
\i lu
\i0  would be a possibility for shape with loop, but reading 
\i r\uc0\u363 
\i0  for shape without loop virtually guaranteed by occurrences of apparently related sequence 
\i \'b0u ru kle\uc0\u7717 
\i0  
\i ya\uc0\u7745 
\i0  at end of several urn inscriptions.\
2. Sequence 
\i \uc0\u7685 a hi
\i0  also attested in PYU002.\cf0 \
\
Luce\'92s translation (PPPB I, p. 75 n. 27): \'93These are the bones of the Honourable Ru-ba, deceased son of the Honourable La-wi: ni\'92 mli (sic), grandson of Nga-kno.\'94\
\
Tha Myat\'92s translation (PR: 21): \'93The structure (tomb) of the honorable Tubahi, the son of the honorable Davintinmrin and the grandson of Nagukano.\'94\
\
Revised translation:
\i  (to appear)\
\

\i0 Nice examples of attributive/genitive function of 
\i \'b0u
\i0 : \'91revered son of \'85 and grandson of \'85\'92.\super \
\nosupersub \
}