{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17860\viewh4760\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 PYU003	STONE URN FROM PAYAGYI
\b \
\

\b0 \uc0\u346 r\u299 k\u7779 etra Archaeological Museum nr. 2013/1/2\
IB, portfolio IV, CCCLIV (d)\
Blagden, EI 12, no. 16 (reprinted in JBRS), item D1\
PPPB, I, p. 126; II, pl. 5a, 6a
\b \
\
Text (Arlo Griffiths & Julian K. Wheatley)\

\b0 From the estampage in EI 12, February 2012; revised September\'96December 2015.
\b \
\

\b0 @|| td\cf2 '\cf0 a\uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u hi suriyavikrama \cf3 \uc0\u7685 a\cf0 \uc0\u7717  \'b0u v\cf2 '\cf3 o\cf0 \uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  k\cf3 m\cf0 i\uc0\u7745  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  (\cf3 v\cf0 )\cf2 '\cf0 a ti\uc0\u7745  dli\u7745  sni\u7717  ho\u7717  su pi\u7745  \u7749 a ta ki\u7745  \cf3 kha\cf0  \'b0u sni\uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u ru kle\u7717  ya\u7745 \
\

\b Variant readings
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\i \cf4 suriya
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i s\uc0\u363 riya
\i0  Blagden and Tha Myat.\

\i \uc0\u7685 a\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671 
\i  \uc0\u7685 a\u7745 \u7717 
\i0  Blagden and Tha Myat.\

\i v'o\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  Blagden (tentatively on <'o>) and Tha Myat also read 
\i v'o\uc0\u7717 
\i0 , but the <o> vowel does not look typical; it could be 
\i rv'a\uc0\u7717 .
\i0 \

\i kmi\uc0\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i kdi\uc0\u7745  
\i0 Blagden (tentative on <d>) and Tha Myat.\

\i (v)'a
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i t'a
\i0  Blagden (tentative on the whole ak\uc0\u7779 ara) and Tha Myat. For our 
\i (v)\'92a ti\uc0\u7745  dli\u7745 
\i0 , Tun Aung Chain (2003: 4) reads 
\i (ta)tiddi
\i0 , which he understand as proper name 
\i Tatiddi
\i0  deriving it from Skt. 
\i d\uc0\u299 dhiti
\i0  \'91devotion, splendor\'92.\

\i dli\uc0\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i pli\uc0\u7745 
\i0  Blagden (tentative on <pl>) and Tha Myat.\

\i ho\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671 
\i  hau\uc0\u7717 
\i0  Blagden (tentative on <hau>),
\i  hau
\i0  Tha Myat.\

\i su
\i0  \uc0\u9671 
\i  s\uc0\u363 
\i0  Blagden and Tha Myat.\

\i ki\uc0\u7745  kha
\i0  \uc0\u9671  Blagden and Tha Myat also read 
\i kha
\i0 , though both tentative. The sequence might also be read 
\i ki\uc0\u7745  ce
\i0 . It also occurs in other urns and in PYU016.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\b \cf0 Translations
\b0 \
Blagden: \'93Year 35 (673); S\uc0\u363 riyavikrama\'92s relative or relatives died.\'94\
Tha Myat: \'93Year 30 Suriyavikrama\'92s relatives died.\'94\
Luce: \'93In 35 / AD 673 a relative (?) of S\uc0\u363 riyavikrama died.\'94\
San Win: \'93In the (Pyu) year 64 King S\uc0\u363 riya Vikrama died, at the age of 50 years and 5 months.\'94}