{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red243\green235\blue0;\red255\green255\blue51;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16600\viewh4160\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 PYU004	STONE URN FROM PAYAGYI
\b \
\

\b0 \uc0\u346 r\u299 k\u7779 etra Archaeological Museum nr. 2013/1/1\
IB, portfolio IV, plate 354c\
Blagden, EI 12, no. 16, reprinted in JBRS \'97 item (C).\
PPPB, I, p. 126; II, pl. 5bc, 6b.
\b \
\
Text (Arlo Griffiths & Julian K. Wheatley)\

\b0 From the estampage in EI 12, September 2015; revised October\'96December 2015.
\b \
\

\b0 [@|]| td\cf2 '\cf0 a\uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u hi suriyavikrama \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  sni\u7717  \u7749 a su rl\cf3 a m\cf0 i\uc0\u7745  \u7749 a ta ki\u7745  \cf3 kha\cf0  \'b0u (sn)i\uc0\u7717  sni\u7717  tru rl\cf3 a\cf0  pla\uc0\u7745  ti\u7745  td\cf2 '\cf0 a\uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u ru kle\u7717  ya\u7745 \
\

\b Variant readings
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\i \cf4 suriyavikrama
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i s\uc0\u363 riyavikrama
\i0  Blagden and Tha Myat\

\i su rla
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i s\uc0\u363 
\i0  
\i (de) 
\i0 Blagden and Tha Myat.\

\i mi\uc0\u7745  
\i0 \uc0\u9671  
\i (p)i\uc0\u7745 
\i0  Blagden, 
\i (pi)
\i0  That Myat. Comparison of 
\i mi\uc0\u7745 
\i0  and 
\i pla\uc0\u7745 
\i0  in this inscription versus 
\i ma
\i0  in 003 seems to support the <m> reading. 
\b See images in corresponding Word file.
\b0  But accidental damage to an original <p>, creating the misleading impression of presence of a crossbar typical of <m>, can plausibly be postulated should a <p> be required. If the phrase 
\i rla mi\uc0\u7745  \u7749 a
\i0  does mean \'91months five\'92, then <p> is etymologically more likely for the pre-syllable associated with \'91five\'92 (
\i \uc0\u7749 a
\i0 ): cf. Lushai 
\i panga
\i0  (Matisoff, 
\i HPTB
\i0 , p. 149).\

\i tru rla
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i t[ru sau]
\i0  Blagden, 
\b \cb5 THA MYAT
\b0 \cb1 .\

\i ti\uc0\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i ti\uc0\u7717 
\i0  Blagden, 
\b \cb6 THA MYAT
\b0 \cb1 .\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\b \cf0 Translations
\b0 \
Blagden: \'93Year 50 (688 AD), 5\super th\nosupersub  month, S\uc0\u363 riyavikrama himself died, aged 64 years.\'94\
San Win (2003: 18), revises Blagden as: \'93In the year 64 King S\uc0\u363 riya Vikrama died, at the age of 50 years and 5 month.\'94\

\b \
\
}