{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red243\green235\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13940\viewh5040\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-4346\sl300\qj

\f0\fs28 \cf0 PYU005	STONE URN FROM PAYAGYI
\b \
\

\b0 \uc0\u346 r\u299 k\u7779 etra Archaeological Museum nr. 2013/1/3\
IB, portfolio IV, CCCLIV (a)\
Blagden, EI 12, no. 16, reprinted in JBRS
\b  
\b0 \'97 item (A).\
PPPB, I, p. 126; II, pl. 5d, 6c.
\b \
\
Text (Arlo Griffiths & Julian K. Wheatley)\

\b0 From the estampage in EI 12, September 2015; revised October\'96November 2015.
\b \
\

\b0 @|| td\cf2 '\cf0 a\uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u hi \cf3 t\uc0\u7771 \cf0  hna ku harivikrama \uc0\u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  sni\u7717  \u7749 a (s)u kni rl\cf3 a\cf0  hni\uc0\u7745  ti\u7745  ph\cf3 v\cf2 '\cf3 u\cf0  \cf3 npu\cf0  pla\uc0\u7745  ta \cf3 k\cf0 i\uc0\u7745  \cf3 kha\cf0  \'b0u sni\uc0\u7717  sni\u7717  pla\u7745  su ta\u7745  rl\cf3 a\cf0  kni ti\uc0\u7745  phv\cf2 '\cf3 u\cf0  tko ti\uc0\u7745  td\cf2 '\cf0 a\uc0\u7717  \u7685 a\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u ru kle\u7717  ya\u7745 \
\

\b Variant readings
\b0 \

\i \cf4 t\uc0\u7771 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i t(r)a
\i0  Blagden, 
\i tra
\i0  Tha Myat.\

\i ku
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i (ka)
\i0  Blagden and Tha Myat. \
\pard\pardeftab708\sl300\qj

\i \cf4 (s)u rla
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i s\uc0\u363 
\i0  
\i (de) 
\i0 Blagden and Tha Myat.\

\i kni rla
\i0  \uc0\u9671  
\i kni
\i0  
\i (de)
\i0  Blagden and Tha Myat.\

\i npu
\i0  \uc0\u9671  (
\i t)p\uc0\u363 
\i0  Blagden, 
\i ns\uc0\u363 
\i0  Tha Myat. If the meaning is \'91twenty four days\'92, then the ak\uc0\u7779 ara should read 
\i nsu
\i0 . Luce\'92s estampage might support <n>, but less so <s>. The urn has been damaged since Luce\'92s rubbing and that ak\uc0\u7779 ara has been chipped off.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-4346\sl300\qj

\i \cf4 su ta\uc0\u7745  rla
\i0  \uc0\u9671   
\i s\uc0\u363  ta\u7745  (de)
\i0  Blagden 
\b \cb5 THA MYAT
\b0 \cb1 .\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-4346\sl300\qj
\cf0 \

\b Notes
\b0 \
	
\i ru
\i0 : cf. 
\i r\uc0\u363 p
\i0 \'b7 in PYU001.2?\
	
\i phv'u
\i0 : note interesting allograph of <-u> associated with postconsonantal <-v>, more clearly detectable in PYU006; also found in PYU016.\
\

\b Translations
\b0 \
Blagden: \'93year 57 (695 AD), 2\super nd\nosupersub  month, 24\super th\nosupersub  day; Harivikrama died; aged 41 years, 7 months and 9 days\'94 \
San Win: \'93On the 9\super th\nosupersub  day of the 7\super th\nosupersub  month in the (Pyu) year 41 King Hari Vikrama died. His age was 57 years, 2 months and 24 days.\'94\

\b \
\
}