{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue51;\red255\green39\blue18;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17920\viewh5560\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs38 \cf0 PYU016. KAN WET KHAUNG G\'d4N IMAGE INSCRIPTION\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
Transliteration of site name: 
\i kan vak kho\uc0\u7749 \u7717 
\i0 .\
\
Niharanjan Ray, 
\i Sanskrit Buddhism in Burma
\i0 , p. 19\'9620.\
G.H. Luce, \'93The ancient Pyu\'94, JBRS 27 (1937), p. 243: quote from Dikshit on meter of Sanskrit (8 
\i va\uc0\u7745 \u347 asthavila
\i0  stanzas).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li848\fi-849\pardirnatural

\fs26 \cf0 The inscription was sent to India for decipherment, and by the courtesy of U Mya, our late Archaeologist, I have been shewn extracts from Mr. Dikshit\'92s note on the subject, which is soon, I think, to be published. This note is obscure, but so interesting, that I take the liberty of quoting it, almost in full: \'97 "I have been able to read the extant portion of the Sanskrit inscription on the Buddha statue. It yields 8 complete verses in the Va\uc0\u7745 \u347 asthavila metre, and the Pyu words interspersed between the Sanskrit expressions are literal translations or in some cases longer explanations of Sanskrit originals. . . . The sense of the inscription, as I see it, is to record the erection of this statue (?) by the prince Jayacandravarman. In the first sloka is mentioned the creation in one day of two cities (one of which must be Hmawza) where apparently the venerable Guha or Guhad\u299 pa was preaching, and who was apparently the religious instructor of Jayacandravarman himself. The younger brother of the prince named Harivikrama (who was possibly ruling in the other city) was also associated (in the gift ?). There is mention of the increase of the feeling of mutual love probably between the two brothers (and the two cities) under the influence of the teacher. Verse 5 expresses the sentiment that the descendants, relations, etc., will not quarrel. . . . . . In the last verse the hope is expressed that the friendship between the two cities will continue to the end of the world, and the dear younger brother with his sons and descendants etc. is also referred to."\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs38 \cf0 G.H. Luce, 
\i Phases of Pre-Pagan Burma
\i0 , vol. 1 p. 65 with n. 22 on p. 74; p. 132; plates 16\'9617 in vol. 2.\

\i IB
\i0 , portfolio IV, plate 356a [IoB-Aleksey P1810534\'9639].\
A.H. Dani, 
\i Indian Palaeography
\i0 , 1963, pp. 243ff.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Tha Myat, 
\i Pyu Reader
\i0 , 1963, p. 41\'9643 (only face A, b and d).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Comparanda for Northern Brahmi\
	- Vainyagupta, GE 184 = 502/3 CE\
	- Mahanaman (587 CE): our <ha> and <la> is still of more archaic shape than in Mahanaman\
	- Tipperah\
	- Mundesvari: Bakker, The World, pl. 54 p. 234\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text
\b0 \
Provisional reading by Arlo Griffiths (initially with help from San Win, later with help from Yuko Yokochi). This reading is based on RTI images and the published estampages. The estampages reproduced in PPPB are better than the ones in IB, and seem to have been produced before the inscription suffered some damage. The RTI images, taken many decades later still, reveal that the stone has again suffered damaged.  On the left end of face A and the right end of face d, 1\'962 ak\uc0\u7779 aras have been lost since the time the IB estampages were made.\
\

\b Line 1
\b0 \

\b (1A) 
\i [ma](h)\uc0\u299 bhuj\u257 m\'b7
\i0\b0  tg'a(m\'b7)\uc0\u7717  d'i\u7745  t\cf2 i\cf0 \uc0\u7745  pmi\cf2 C\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf0  \cf2 CVCV\cf0 \uc0\u7717  
\i\b \'b0unnata
\i0\b0  kd'i\cf2 r\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  tra v'a kv'i\u7745  
\i\b p\cf2 au\cf0 rusa
\i0\b0  \'b0u s\cf2 (C)\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 \u7717  pir\'b7\u7745  tg'a 
\i\b \uc0\u347 riy\u257 m
\b0 \'b7
\i0  \'b0u sri ya\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \u7717 \cf0  
\i\b \'b0idam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  ta\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745  
\i\b virodha
\i0\b0  tim\'b7\uc0\u7745  ka\u7749 \'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i \'b0
\b upa\uc0\u347 ama
\i0\b0  \'b0u pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7 dlim\'b7\u7717  
\i\b \'b0eka
\i0\b0  \'b0ik\'b7 \cf2 (t)a(k)\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i\b k\uc0\u257 ra\u7751 a\u7745 
\i0\b0  \

\b (1b) 
\b0 ti\uc0\u7745  pla\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b \'b0ita\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  ya\uc0\u7745  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b pradh\uc0\u257 ryya
\i0\b0  drun\'b7\uc0\u7717  ta \u7749 ar\'b7\u7717  d'am\'b7\u7717  
\i \'b0
\b \uc0\u257 yati
\i0\b0  \cf2 kn\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 (\cf2 n\cf0 )\'b7\uc0\u7717  d'u(k\'b7)\

\b (1C) 
\b0 \cf2 ? ? ? ? ?
\b \cf0  
\b0 \cf2 d'o d'a\uc0\u7717  kdi\u7717 
\b \cf3  
\i \cf0 vyadh\uc0\u257 yi
\i0  
\b0 \cf2 rlam\'b7 \cf0 ta\cf2  sdam\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 yena
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 pd'ik\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 \'b0ekadine
\i0  
\b0 \cf2 kCV \cf0 ta(k\'b7)\uc0\u7745 \cf2  d'u(k)\'b7\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 puradvayam\'b7
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745  pri\u7749 \'b7\u7717  kni 
\i\b tam\'b7
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 po 
\i\b \'b0\uc0\u257 \cf2 srava
\i0\b0 \cf0  tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  lim\'b7\u7745  /// \cf2 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X\cf0 \

\b (1d) \cf2 \'b0
\b0 u\cf0  tcat\'b7 tc\cf2 a\cf0  
\i\b puradvaya
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745  pri\u7749 \'b7\u7717  kni 
\i\b \'b0ek\uc0\u257 ntahita
\i0\b0  tak\'b7\uc0\u7745  sca\u7749 \'b7\u7717  \'b0u pa\u7749 \'b7 hip\'b7 sya\u7745 
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf4 	1A. 
\i tg\'92a(m\'b7)\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  what must be the same word, perhaps meaning \'91earth\'92, also occurs in 5d (whence we assume presence of final 
\i m
\i0 \'b7 here) and in PYU017, l. 5.
\b \
	
\b0 1A. \'b0
\i idam\'b7 ta\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  below (2C, 4A, 5A, 5C), we repeatedly find the sequence 
\i na\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745 
\i0 , once somewhat unclearly but thrice without any possibility of doubt as to the reading 
\i n
\i0  rather than 
\i t
\i0 , after direct-case forms (
\i ayam
\i0 , 
\i imam
\i0 ) of the Sanskrit near-deictic pronoun, of which 
\i idam
\i0  is another instance. The reading 
\i t
\i0  here seems beyond doubt. We therefore have to consider the possibilities (a) that the difference 
\i ta\uc0\u7717 /na\u7717 
\i0  represents a linguistic reality, (b) that 
\i ta\uc0\u7717 
\i0  is a scribal error for 
\i na\uc0\u7717 
\i0 , or (c) that damage to the stone has caused an intended 
\i na
\i0  to take the shape of 
\i ta
\i0 .
\b \
	
\b0 1b. 
\i d'u(k\'b7)
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this word is tentatively read here on the assumption this line ends with the same word as 5d.\
	1C. The first five ak\uc0\u7779 aras of this line must have been in Sanskrit with prosodic pattern \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 2\
(2A) 
\i\b0 (
\b \'b0u
\b0 )
\b pade\uc0\u347 inam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  \'b0u khon\'b7\uc0\u7717  ti\u7745  thmi\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  
\i \'b0
\b abhipra\uc0\u7751 amya
\i0\b0  \cf2 ga\uc0\u7745 \cf0 \uc0\u7717  dru\cf2 \uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  ta sba 
\i \'b0
\b aryyaguh\uc0\u257 dhip\u257 hvayam
\b0 \'b7 
\i0 \uc0\u7685 ay\'b7\u7745 \u7717  g'o vam\'b7 kv'i\u7745  \'b0u mi\u7749 \'b7 
\i \'b0
\b day\uc0\u257 nuk\u363 la
\b0  
\i0 ti\cf2 l\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  d'a\cf2 (C\'b7\uc0\u7745 )\cf0  ti\cf2 l\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  yav\'b7 \'b0u \cf2 vren\'b7\cf0  \cf2 crom\cf0 \'b7 
\i \'b0
\b agrasam\uc0\u257 dhil\u257 bhinam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  kdam\'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  ni\u7749 \'b7\u7745  sdin\'b7 td\cf2 '\cf0 ik\'b7 \'b0u kdi \uc0\u7685 ay\'b7\u7745 \u7717  d\cf2 '\cf0 i\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  \cf2 [||]\cf0  
\i\b y[ata\uc0\u7717 ]
\i0\b0 \

\b (2b)
\b0  (pd)[']ik\'b7\uc0\u7745  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b prabhr\uc0\u805 tya
\i0\b0  drun\'b7\uc0\u7717  ta p\cf2 u\cf0  tum\'b7 
\i \'b0
\b abhyuday\uc0\u257 ya
\i0\b0  \'b0u pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7 t(\cf2 d\uc0\u363 \cf0 )\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7717  kli\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u pla\u7745 \u7717  \

\b (2C)
\b0 \cf3  \cf2 X X X X X 
\i\b mCVX
\i0\b0  X X X X 
\i\b \cf0 m\cf2 vu\cf0 ja
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \'b0u pla\uc0\u7745 \u7717  tra\u7717  sdi tdi\cf2 \uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 p\uc0\u299 \u7789 ha\cf2 l\uc0\u257 \'f1chita\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \'b0u X \cf2 du\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf3  \cf0 \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  ta tdi\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  
\i \'b0
\b ayam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  (na)\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745  
\i\b kriy\uc0\u257 
\i0\b0  tsa\uc0\u7717  
\i\b k\uc0\u257 ra\u7751 ay\u257 
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745  ///\cf2  [? ? ? ? ? ?]\

\b \cf0 (2d) 
\b0 td'av\'b7\uc0\u7717  
\i\b \uc0\u347 r\u299 jayacandravarmma\u7751 \u257 
\i0\b0  srijan\'b7travar\'b7ma kv'i\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 \'b0u m(i)\uc0\u7749 \'b7 ||\cf2  
\i \cf0 \'b0
\b ata\uc0\u7717 
\i0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf4 	2A. 
\i aryyaguh\uc0\u257 dhip\u257 hvayam
\i0  \uc0\u9671  emend \'b0
\i \uc0\u257 ryya-
\i0 . The Pyu gloss 
\i g'o
\i0  confirms the otherwise slightly uncertain reading 
\i guh\uc0\u257 
\i0  in the Sanskrit name. See PYU007, l. 20 / 08, l. \cb5 XX\cb1  for the 
\i guh\uc0\u257 /go
\i0  correspondence.\
	2A. 
\i (y)[ata\uc0\u7717 ]
\i0  \uc0\u9671  restoration proposed on the basis of the Pyu gloss, where 
\i pi\uc0\u7745 \u7717 n
\i0 \'b7 stands for -
\i tas
\i0 , and several cases of Skt. relative pronoun being glossed with 
\i pd'ik\uc0\u7745 
\i0 .\
	2b. 
\i prabhr\uc0\u805 tyeva 
\i0 \uc0\u9671  emend 
\i pradhr\uc0\u805 tyeva
\i0 ? Cf. 1A 
\i\b pradh\uc0\u257 ryya
\b0  drun\'b7\uc0\u7717  ta \u7749 ar\'b7\u7717  d'am\'b7\u7717  
\i0 and 3A 
\i\b prabhr\uc0\u805 tyeva
\b0  dru(n)\'b7\uc0\u7717  ta pu (t)um\'b7 lo\u7749 \'b7\u7717 
\i0 .\
	2b. 
\i pu 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the reading 
\i pu
\i0  is almost certainly incorrect, as shape of subscribed 
\i u
\i0  is not like this in Pyu. Same problem in 3A.\
	2b.
\i  t(d\uc0\u363 )\u7749 \'b7\u7717 
\i0 \cf0  \cf4 \uc0\u9671  or read 
\i tlu\uc0\u7749 
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7717 
\i0 ? Our reading after rather clear case of 
\i td\uc0\u363 \u7749 
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7717 
\i0  in PYU020.1.7.\
	2C. 
\i mvuja
\i0 : it would be possible to read 
\i p\uc0\u257 d\u257 mvuja
\i0 , for instance.\
	2C. 
\i (na)\uc0\u7717  y\u257 \u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the first word is hard to read but seems secure because the same expression is used to gloss Skt. 
\i ayam
\i0  and 
\i imam
\i0  in 4A, 5A and 5C.\
	2d. 
\i srijan\'b7travar\'b7ma
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this gloss does not represent the element 
\i jaya
\i0  in the Sanskrit name Jayacandravarman.\
	2d. 
\i kv'i\uc0\u7745  \'b0u m(i)\u7749 
\i0 \'b7: the reading is secure because of occurrence of the same sequence in 2A, although the shape of vocalisation 
\i i
\i0  in 
\i mi\uc0\u7749 
\i0 \'b7 is unusual; one has the impression the engraver started with the shape of 
\i repha
\i0  as seen in Sanskrit \'b0
\i va
\b r
\b0 mma\uc0\u7751 \u257 
\i0  until he realized he ought to be engraving Pyu and not Sanskrit here.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 3\
(3A) 
\b0 ya\uc0\u7745  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b prabhr\uc0\u805 tyeva
\i0\b0  dru(\cf2 n\cf0 )\'b7\uc0\u7717  ta p\cf2 u \cf0 (t)um\'b7\cf2  l\cf0 o\cf2 \uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  
\i\b vig\uc0\u257 \u7693 ha
\i0\b0  tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 da\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  g'a 
\i\b ni\uc0\u347 caya\u7717 
\i0\b0  \'b0u td'o\cf2 (p)\cf0 \'b7 \cf2 tdam\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf0  
\i\b paraspara
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745 m\'b7 da\u7749 \'b7\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  ra 
\i\b pr\uc0\u299 tirasa
\i0\b0  \'b0u \cf2 ki\uc0\u7745 n\cf0 \'b7 k\cf2 Ce\uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7 \'b0u kd'iv\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 kha\cf2 v\cf0 \'b7\cf2  d'in\cf0 \'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i \'b0
\b upagh\uc0\u257 tinam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  k\cf2 c\cf0 e \cf2 kg'a\cf0  
\i \'b0
\b aham
\b0 \'b7
\i0  gay\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b na
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 a\u7717  
\i\b bh\uc0\u363 ya\u7717 
\i0\b0  g\cf2 (i/o)t\'b7 X
\b \cf0  \
(3b)
\b0  
\i (
\b ka)rav\uc0\u257 \u7751 i
\b0  
\i0 ta pli\uc0\u7745 \u7717  sa\u7745 \u7717  tim\'b7\u7745  ka\u7749 \'b7\u7745  
\i\b sah\uc0\u257 nuja
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7 n\u7685 un\'b7\u7717  mroy\'b7\u7717  
\i\b \uc0\u347 r\u299 h\u257 rivikra[me]- 
\i0\b0 \

\b (3C) 
\i [\uc0\u7751 a ca]
\i0  
\b0 ? ? ? ? sriharivi(k\'b7)krama \'b0u mi\uc0\u7749 \'b7 || 
\i\b bhaveyu\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 le\uc0\u7717  \cf0 kha \'b0u\cf2  \cf0 kap\'b7\cf2  \cf0 ru\uc0\u7717 
\i  
\b \'b0asmat\'b7
\i0  
\b0 \cf2 ga(y)\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 puna\uc0\u7717 
\i0 \cf2  
\b0 kda\uc0\u7717 \cf3  
\i \cf0 \'b0
\b \uc0\u257 tmaj\u257 \u347  ca ye
\i0\b0  \cf2 pd'ik\'b7\uc0\u7745  gi sa\u7717  pli\cf0  v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf2  hno 
\i\b \cf0 saputtrasant\uc0\u257 na
\i0\b0 \cf2  \cf0 ? ? /// ? ? ? ? ? ? [tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 ]\cf3 \

\b \cf0 (3d) 
\b0 \uc0\u7685 un\'b7\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 tim\'b7\uc0\u7745  tak\'b7 ki\u7745 \cf2  kha\cf0  hv(')u\cf2  
\i\b \cf0 na te
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 a\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 po\cf2  \cf0 v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b virotsyanti
\i0\b0 \cf2  lam\'b7 \cf0 hli\uc0\u7745 \u7717  ska\u7749 \'b7\u7745  \cf2 m\cf0 r\cf2 a\cf0  v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf4 	3A. 
\i prabhr\uc0\u805 tyeva 
\i0 \uc0\u9671  emend 
\i pradhr\uc0\u805 tyeva
\i0 ? Cf. the note on 2b.\
	3A. 
\i lo\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7717 
\i0 : the same word occurs in 5C. Read 
\i \uc0\u7789 lo\u7749 \'b7\u7717 
\i0 ?\
	3A. 
\i paraspara
\i0  \uc0\u9671  it would be possible to read here 
\i paraspara\uc0\u7745 
\i0 , but we consider the ostensible 
\i anusv\uc0\u257 ra
\i0  an accidental unevenness in the stone.\
	3b 
\i \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7
\i0  \uc0\u9671  see 4A and 6A.\
	3C. 
\i le\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  see our note on 4A 
\i (pe\uc0\u7745 \u7717 )
\i0 .\
	3C. 
\i saputtrasant\uc0\u257 na
\b  
\i0\b0 \uc0\u9671  or
\i  \'b0putra\'b0
\i0 ? The writing being too faded here to determine the precise spelling, we follow the spelling clearly observed in 4A.\
	3C. 
\i [tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 ]
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the restoration follows from repeated occurrence of 
\i tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  \u7685 un\'b7\u7717  tim\'b7\u7745 
\i0  in 4A.\
	3d. 
\i kha
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this syllable, reoccurring beside 
\i ki\uc0\u7745 
\i0  several times below, might also be read 
\i ce
\i0 . Same sequence 
\i ki\uc0\u7745  kha/ce
\i0  occurs in the urn inscriptions.
\b \

\b0 	3d. 
\i hv(')u
\i0  \uc0\u9671  for the allograph of -
\i u
\i0  attached to subscript -
\i v
\i0 -, see several cases in PYU005 and 006. This precise word occurs in PYU032, l. 6.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 4\
(4A) 
\i (paraspar\uc0\u257 )tmajai\u7717 
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 a(y\'b7)\u7745 \u7717  \cf6 la \cf0 sa\uc0\u7717  \cf2 pli\uc0\u7745 \cf0  \cf6 d'a\uc0\u7745 \cf0  v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b saputtrasant\uc0\u257 na
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7 sa\u7717  tin\'b7\u7745  \u7685 un\'b7\u7717  tim\'b7\u7745  ta(k\'b7) 
\i\b parampar\uc0\u257 gatai\u7717 
\i0\b0  tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  \u7685 un\'b7\u7717  ti(m\'b7)\u7745  \cf2 d(e/a)k\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717 \cf0  ki\uc0\u7745  kha hv'u v'a\u7749 \'b7 v'a\u7749 \'b7 || 
\i\b \'b0imam\'b7
\i0  
\b0 \cf7 na\uc0\u7717 
\b \cf0  
\b0 ya\uc0\u7745  
\i\b sa(d\uc0\u257 c\u257 )ra
\i0\b0  mra sdi\uc0\u7749 \'b7 (\cf2 \'b0\uc0\u363 \cf0 ) got\'b7 
\i\b path\uc0\u257 gatam\'b7
\i0\b0  \'b0u ?
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 (4b)
\b0  \cf2 Ci\cf0 m\'b7\uc0\u7717 
\b  
\b0 pin\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  ki\u7745  \cf2 kha\cf0  
\i\b vidhim\'b7
\i0  
\b0 ti\uc0\u7745  krin\'b7\u7745  ti\u7745  sca th\u7749 am\'b7\u7717  tin\'b7\u7745  ti d'in\'b7\u7745  
\i\b caranti
\i0\b0  lam\'b7 pgo\cf2 C\'b7\uc0\u7745 
\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 (4C)\cf2  
\i \cf0 ye
\i0 \cf2  
\b0 [pd'ik\'b7\uc0\u7745 ]\cf0  \cf2 ? ? ? pa 
\i\b patraga\cf0 sambhav\uc0\u257 [ya]
\i0 \cf3  
\b0 \cf2 ? go s(g/\uc0\u7685 )a(l/k)\'b7 \cf0 mroy\'b7\uc0\u7717  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 te
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 hiC\'b7 \uc0\u7685 a \cf0 v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 bhavantu
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 (pe\uc0\u7745 \u7717 ) \cf0 kha \'b0u\cf2  \cf0 ka\cf2 (p\'b7)\cf3  \cf0 ru\uc0\u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 satve
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \'b0u \cf2 phnot\'b7 
\i\b \cf0 niruj\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \uc0\u7685 a\cf2  \cf0 kca\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 cir\uc0\u257 yusa\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 dro\uc0\u7749 \'b7 h\cf2 \uc0\u7771 \cf0  
\i\b sad\uc0\u257 
\i0 \cf3  
\b0 \cf2 ? \cf0 ti\uc0\u7745 \cf2  pCi ? /// ? ? 
\b [\'b0
\i u
\i0 -]
\b0 \

\b \cf0 (4d)
\b0 \cf2  
\i\b \cf0 daya
\i0\b0  \'b0u kd'i\cf2 r\'b7\cf0 \uc0\u7745  tra v'a 
\i \'b0
\b artthasiddhaya\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  \'b0u pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf2  sdla\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7717  \cf0 kli\uc0\u7745 \u7717  khmi\u7749 \'b7\cf2  \cf0 kta v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7 ||
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf4 	4A. 
\i mra sdi\uc0\u7749 \'b7 (\'b0\u363 ) got\'b7
\i0  \uc0\u9671  note same sequence in 5A.\
	4A. 
\i (\'b0\uc0\u363 )
\i0   \uc0\u9671  the sign we encounter here is the one we normally transliterate <\'b0u> with an appendix of the left-turning type we normally transliterate <-u> or <-\u7771 >. Comparison with the presumptive identical sequence in 5A, where we read a normal \'b0
\i u
\i0 , suggests scribal confusion jere.\
	4b. 
\i pgoC\'b7\uc0\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  presence of final 
\i y
\i0  as in PYU020 
\i pgoy
\i0  seems doubtful. Same word in the gloss of 
\i anuvartyate
\i0  in 6A?\
	4C. 
\i (pe\uc0\u7745 \u7717 )
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this syllable is almost unreadable here. It should presumably be identical to the one following the same Sanskrit verb form 
\i bhavantu
\i0  in 5A, but what little remains visible suggest there might be an 
\i e
\i0 -vocalisation here; this in turn is reminiscent of the syllable we hesitantly read le\uc0\u7717  immediately after the nearly synonymous Sanskrit verb form bhaveyu\u7717  in 3C.\
	4C. 
\i sad\uc0\u257 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  it is remarkable that this word does not here received the same gloss as it does in 5b and 6A.\
	4d. 
\i kd'ir\'b7\uc0\u7745  tra v'a
\i0  \uc0\u9671  presumably the same sequence appears in the gloss of 
\i unnata
\i0  in l. 1.
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 5\
(5A) 
\i (v)i[la]\uc0\u7749 ghito
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 in\'b7\u7745 \u7717  t\cf2 o\cf0  bak\'b7\uc0\u7745  tv'an\'b7\u7717  
\i\b yai\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  pd'ik\'b7\uc0\u7745  v'a\u7749 \'b7 
\i \'b0
\b ayam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  na\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745  
\i \'b0
\b \uc0\u257 ryyagocaro
\i0\b0  mra (s)di\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7 \'b0u got\'b7 \cf2 (hek/rhat)\cf0 \'b7 
\i\b bhavantu
\i0\b0  pa\uc0\u7745 \u7717  kha \'b0u kap\'b7 ru\u7745  
\i\b te
\i0\b0  po v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b vigrahak\uc0\u257 ryya
\i0\b0  tim\'b7\uc0\u7745  ka\u7749 \'b7\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  v'a\u7749 \'b7 prat\'b7 pa\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b vibhrama\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  kmu\uc0\u7749 \'b7 kmi\cf2 (k/t/n)\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  
\i\b nirantara
\i0\b0  \cf2 \uc0\u7685 a\cf0  sar\'b7 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 (5b)
\b0  \cf2 ?k\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf0  
\i\b vy\uc0\u257 dhipar\u299 tam\u363 rttaya\u7717 
\i0\b0  kca \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  \cf2 (d/v)\cf0 in\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  \cf2 n\cf0 ci(k)\'b7\uc0\u7745  kv'i\u7745  \'b0u hya\u7717  
\i\b sad\uc0\u257 
\i0\b0  \cf2 n\cf0 \uc0\u7749 a(p)\'b7 d'uk\'b7\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (5C) 
\b0 \cf3  
\i\b \cf2 ? y\uc0\u257 Cima
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745  dro\u7717  kd'i \'b0u (h/p)a d'uk\'b7 
\i\b nivah\uc0\u257 dhi\u7779 \u7789 \u363 yate X
\i0  
\b0 tya\uc0\u7749 \'b7 \cf0 kv'i\uc0\u7745  (\'b0u) khmi\u7749 \'b7\cf2  \cf0 kta\cf3  \cf0 || 
\i\b \'b0ayam\'b7
\i0  
\b0 na\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745 
\b  
\i (k)r[i]y\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 aya\u7717 
\i0\b0  tsa\uc0\u7717  ti\u7745  ya\u7717  \'b0u kri(n)\'b7\u7745  \cf2  
\i\b \cf0 tathaiva
\i0\b0 \cf2  ? ? \cf0 nay\'b7 \cf2 l\cf0 o(\cf2 \uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717 )\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 te 
\i0\b0 po v'a\uc0\u7749 \'b7 \cf2 ? /// ? ? ?\cf3 \

\b \cf0 (5d)
\b0  
\i\b sauhr\uc0\u805 dam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  \'b0u \uc0\u7685 i\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  \cf2 ce tko\cf0 \uc0\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 hak\'b7 \'b0u hli\uc0\u7717  
\i\b \'b0\uc0\u257  bhuva sthite\u7717 
\i0\b0  tg'am\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 \'b0u tco\cf2 C\'b7\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf4 	5A. 
\i (s)din
\i0 \'b7 \uc0\u9671  we presume the same word is intended here as the one we read 
\i sdi\uc0\u7749 
\i0 \'b7 in 4A. We further assume the unusual shape of the presumptive 
\i s
\i0  is in fact that of the 
\i s
\i0  of Northern Br\uc0\u257 hm\u299  script, hence that the scribe here would have confused scripts. The final consonant here cannot be read as 
\i \uc0\u7749 
\i0 .\
	5A. 
\i pa\uc0\u7745 \u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  presence of subscript (final) consonant cannot be excluded. One would be tempted to equate this sequence with what we read \
	5A. 
\i vibhrama\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  it seems impossible to read 
\i vibhram\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0 , which is the required reading.\
	5c. 
\i \'b0u hya\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the two short inscriptions on silver bowls PYU47-48 show this same expression.\
	5b. 
\i n\uc0\u7749 am\'b7
\i0  
\i d'uk
\i0 \'b7 \uc0\u9671  cf. 
\i d'uk
\i0 \'b7 at the end of 1b, and 6A for the whole 
\i n\uc0\u7749 am\'b7/t\u7749 am\'b7
\i0  
\i d'uk
\i0 , which must mean \'91always\'92.\
	5C. Cf. 
\i kriy\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 ay\u257 
\i0  in 2C.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 6\
(6A) 
\b0 \cf2 ha\uc0\u7717  k(ra\u7749 \'b7)\cf0  
\i\b priy\uc0\u257 nujen\u257 pi
\i0\b0  \'b0u \uc0\u7685 i\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  kro\cf2 C\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  tsa\u7717  tom\'b7 
\i\b sad\uc0\u257 
\i0\b0  \cf2 n\cf0 \uc0\u7749 ap\'b7 d'u(k)\'b7 
\i\b \'b0anu(v)artyate
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  na\cf2 \uc0\u7717 \cf0  pg\cf2 ot\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i\b sah\uc0\u257 nujai[\u7717 ]
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda(\u7749 \'b7)\cf2  \cf0 n\uc0\u7685 [un\'b7]\cf2 \uc0\u7717  (ra)\cf0  
\i\b puttra
\i0\b0  \'b0u sa\uc0\u7717  
\i\b kula
\i0\b0  \'b0u \cf2 \uc0\u7789 \cf0 ru\uc0\u7717  hnor\'b7\u7717 \cf2  
\i\b \cf0 kram\uc0\u257 nugai\u7717 
\i0\b0  \'b0u d'a\uc0\u7745 \u7717  d'a\u7745 \u7717 \cf2  knat\'b7\uc0\u7717  t\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717 \cf0  v'a ||@\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs36 \cf0 	
\fs28 \cf4 6A. 
\i \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda(\u7749 \'b7) n\u7685 [un\'b7]\u7717  (ra)
\i0  \uc0\u9671  cf. 
\i \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7 n\u7685 un\'b7\u7717  mroy\'b7\u7717 
\i0  in 3b. It is impossible to read 
\i mroy\'b7\uc0\u7717 
\i0  here; the 
\i ra
\i0  we read is very uncertain. It is even uncertain whether there is any sign between 
\i n\uc0\u7685 un\'b7\u7717   
\i0 and
\i  puttra
\i0 ; and if, as seems liketo us, there is one more ak\uc0\u7779 ara, then it seems uncertain whether a visarga immediately follows 
\i n\uc0\u7685 un\'b7.\

\i0 	6A. 
\i \uc0\u7789 ru\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the interpretation of the sign we provisionally interpret as 
\i \uc0\u7789 
\i0  is rather uncertain. \

\fs36 \cf0 \
SANSKRIT STANZAS ARRANGED METRICALLY\
\
METER: VA\uc0\u7744 \u346 ASTHAVILA (4 \'d7 12 syllables with pattern 
\fs28 \uc0\u9169  - \u9169  - - \u9169  \u9169  - \u9169  - \u9169  -)
\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
I.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 [ma](h)\uc0\u299 bhuj\u257 m\cf6  \cf0 unnatapaurusa\uc0\u347 riy\u257 m\
ida\uc0\u7745  virodhopa\u347 amaikak\u257 ra\u7751 a\u7745 \
ita\uc0\u7717  pradh\u257 ry\u257 yati \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96\
vyadh\uc0\u257 yi yenaikadine puradvayam\'b7 ||\
	a. \'b0
\i paurusa
\i0 \'b0 \uc0\u9671  correct \'b0
\i pauru\uc0\u7779 a
\i0 \'b0.\
	\
\'91This is the unique cause of the cessation of strife between kings whose lustre is due to lofty valor. Having meted out punishment for (or: reflected on) this ... the future ... by which/whom the Two Cities have been divided in one day.\'92\
	
\i puradvaya
\i0 : Vinayas\uc0\u363 tra 17.114: 
\i atirecana\uc0\u7747  gandhaku\u7789 iv\u257 t\u257 grapotikayo\u7717  puradvayena
\i0 .\
\
II.\
tam \uc0\u257 \cf2 srava\cf0  \'96 \uc0\u9169  \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96\
puradvayaik\uc0\u257 ntahitopade\u347 inam\
abhipra\uc0\u7751 amy\u257 ryaguh\u257 dhip\u257 hvayam\
day\uc0\u257 nuk\u363 l\u257 grasam\u257 dhil\u257 bhinam ||\
\
\'91Having bowed to the one called \uc0\u256 ryaguh\u257 dhipa, who teaches exclusively what is good for the Two Cities ... \cf2 influxes (
\i \uc0\u257 srava
\i0 )\cf0 , who is inclined to compassion and obtains the best meditation.\'92\
	
\i agrasam\uc0\u257 dhi
\i0 : cf. \uc0\u346 ik\u7779 \u257 samuccaya, ed. Bendall p. 327 (with 
\i kriy\uc0\u257 
\i0  in context), 328, 333, 343.\
\
III. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf2 y[ata\uc0\u7717 ]\cf0  pra\cf2 bh\cf0 r\uc0\u805 ty\u257 bhyuday\u257 ya \'96 \u9169  \'96\
\uc0\u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96 \'96 \cf2 mvujap\uc0\u299 \u7789 hal\u257 \'f1chita\u7717 \cf3 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 aya\uc0\u7745  kriy\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 ay\u257  \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96\
\uc0\u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u347 r\u299 jayacandravarma\u7751 \u257  ||\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	a. 
\i pra\cf2 bh\cf0 r\uc0\u805 ty\u257 
\i0 \'b0: emend 
\i pradhr\uc0\u805 ty\u257 
\i0 \'b0?\
	c. Cf. VIIIc.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\'91Having proceeded from him, for prosperity ..., this one furnished with a lotus pedestal, \cf2 action and cause\cf0  ... by \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jayacandravarman.\'92\
	
\i kriy\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 aya
\i0 : cf. st. VIII. How to explain this compound? Is it 
\i kriy\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra
\i0 +
\i naya
\i0 , with irregular retroflexion? See st. VIII.\
	
\i kriy\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra
\i0 : BHSD; Schopen 1996: 589 note 45\
	Is there some word-play on \'91sunrise\'92 (
\i abhyudaya
\i0 ), \'91lotus\'92 (
\i amvuja
\i0 ), and the element \'91moon\'92 in the name of Jayacandravarman?\cf2 \
\
\cf0 IV.\
ata\uc0\u7717  prabhr\u805 ty eva vig\u257 \u7693 hani\u347 caya\u7717 \
parasparapr\uc0\u299 tirasopagh\u257 tinam\
aha\uc0\u7745  na bh\u363 ya\u7717  karav\u257 \u7751 i \u10218 vigraham\u10219 \
sah\uc0\u257 nuja\u347 r\u299 h\u257 rivikra[me\u7751 a ca] ||\cf3  \
\cf0 	c.  
\i [vigraham]
\i0  \uc0\u9671  three syllables are lacking here; Yuko Yokochi proposes to restore 
\i vigraham
\i0 . This hypothesis is significantly strengthened by the fact that the same Pyu syllables seem to be used immediately after 
\i vigrahak\uc0\u257 ryya
\i0  in 5A, and before 
\i sah\uc0\u257 nuja
\i0  in 3b.\
	d. 
\i \'b0h\uc0\u257 ri\'b0
\i0  \uc0\u9671  emend \'b0hari\'b0.\
\
\'91And henceforward, having fully adopted [this] resolve, I must no longer engage with my younger brother \uc0\u346 r\u299  Harivikrama in conflict, that hurts [our] delight in affection for each other.\'92\
\
V\cf3 .\
\cf0 bhaveyur asmat punar \uc0\u257 tmaj\u257 \u347  ca ye\cf3 \
\cf0 saputrasant\uc0\u257 na[parampar] \'96 \u9169  \'96\
na te virotsyanti (paraspar\uc0\u257 )tmajai\u7717  \
saputrasant\uc0\u257 naparampar\u257 gatai\u7717  || \
\
\'91And those sons that we will have, they will not contend with each other\'92s sons who will have come down in lineage with descendance of sons.\'92\
\
VI.\
ima\uc0\u7745  sa(d\u257 c\u257 )rapath\u257 gata\u7745  vidhim\
caranti \cf2 ye patragasambhav\uc0\u257 ya te\cf3  \
\cf0 bhavantu satve niruj\uc0\u257 \u7717  cir\u257 yusa\u7717  \cf3 \
\cf0 sa\cf2 (d\uc0\u257 )\cf0  \uc0\u9169  \'96\cf3  \cf0 \'96 \cf2 [u]\cf0 day\uc0\u257 rtthasiddhaya\u7717  ||\
	c. \'b0
\i cir\uc0\u257 yusah
\i0 \'b0 \uc0\u9671  correct \'b0
\i cir\uc0\u257 yu\u7779 a\u7717 
\i0 .\
\
\'91Those who practice this rule transmitted along the path of good conduct / of those of good conduct, they will become ... . Let them be healthy in spirit (
\i sattva
\i0 ?), long-lived, always ... rise, wealth, success.\'92\
\
VII.\
vila\uc0\u7749 ghito yair ayam \u257 ryagocaro \
bhavantu te vigrahak\uc0\u257 ryavibhrama\u7717 \
nirantaravy\uc0\u257 dhipar\u299 tam\u363 rtaya\u7717  \
sad\uc0\u257  \cf3  ... \cf2 hita X dhi\uc0\u347 r\u363 ya[te]\cf3  \cf0 ||\cf3 \
\cf0 	b. 
\i vibhrama\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  emend 
\i vibhram\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0 .\
\
\'91Those by whom this noble dwelling place (or: 
\i gocara
\i0  = code of conduct?) is transgressed, let them be restless with the tasks of war, their bodies afflicted by incessant disease, always ... .\'92  \
\
VIII.\cf3 \
\cf0 aya\uc0\u7745  kriy\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 \cf2 ayas \cf0 tathaiva \cf3 \'96\
\cf0 \uc0\u9169  \cf2 te\cf0  \uc0\u9169  \cf3 \'96\cf0  sauhr\uc0\u805 dam \u257  bhuva(\u7717 ) sthite\u7717  \
priy\uc0\u257 nujen\u257 pi sad\u257 nuvartyate\
sah\uc0\u257 nujai[\u7717 ] putrakulakram\u257 nugai\u7717  ||\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\'91This intention (
\i naya
\i0 ) toward agreement (
\i kriy\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra
\i0 ) \'85 friendship as long as the earth shall last, is always pursued also by a dear younger brother, together with younger brothers descending in turn from the families of sons.\'92\
\
\
NOTES YUKO\
The meaning of these verses is difficult to find. Jayacandravarman seems to be the main donor of this inscription. He once had a quarrel with his yonger brother Harivikrama(?), but they now become reconciled and agree that they with their children will never quarrel again. Something like this is meant, I think.\
\
I: This provides a nice Sanskrit compound `virodhopa"samaikakaara.nam'. This expression seems to suggest that the Buddha statue (and maybe the temple) was installed for the commemoration of the peace treaty between two brothers and the two cities they were ruling. This is underlined with the phrase `aha.m na bhuuya.h karavaa.ni ... sahaanuja...'. Dik.sit mentions only the increase of the mutual affection between the two brothers, but I think that is preceded by some strife between them. \
\
I am not so strong in palaeographic dating. What I can say that the script looks very similar to some Gupta inscriptions possibly dated in the 6th century (One is the Barbar hill inscription of the Maukhari prince Anantavarman and the other is the Mu\uc0\u7751 \u7693 e\u347 var\u299  Hill inscription Hans is dealing with in the IIJ epigraphy proceedings). Anantavarman's inscription is usually dated to the early 6th century and Hans ascribes the latter to the second half of the 6th century (and the first half of the seventh cent.), based on Neuss\'92s article. This script appears to be closer to the latter, but it is difficult to decide. \'a0Neuss's paper about the Mu\u7751 \u7693 e\u347 var\u299  inscription may be useful, because he compares the script of several inscriptions around the 6th century in the Northeast India, though Hans is partly critical to his manner of dating. I attach the pdf file of his paper.\
\
OTHER NOTES\
Note occurrence of a Mahadevi Sri Jatra in PYU17 and a Ja(n)tradevi on in PYU18. Cf. spelling of Jayacandravarman\'92s name. Maybe Jayacandravarman\'92s wife?\
See Prabhuvarman in Great Silver Reliquary.\
\
\
}