{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red217\green11\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue51;\red255\green39\blue18;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17020\viewh6140\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs38 \cf0 PYU016. KAN WET KHAUNG G\'d4N IMAGE INSCRIPTION\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
Transliteration of site name: 
\i kan vak kho\uc0\u7749 \u7717 
\i0 .\
\
Niharanjan Ray, 
\i Sanskrit Buddhism in Burma
\i0 , p. 19\'9620.\
G.H. Luce, \'93The ancient Pyu\'94, JBRS 27 (1937), p. 243: quote from Dikshit on meter of Sanskrit (8 
\i va\uc0\u7745 \u347 asthavila
\i0  stanzas).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li848\fi-849\pardirnatural

\fs26 \cf0 The inscription was sent to India for decipherment, and by the courtesy of U Mya, our late Archaeologist, I have been shewn extracts from Mr. Dikshit\'92s note on the subject, which is soon, I think, to be published. This note is obscure, but so interesting, that I take the liberty of quoting it, almost in full: \'97 "I have been able to read the extant portion of the Sanskrit inscription on the Buddha statue. It yields 8 complete verses in the Va\uc0\u7745 \u347 asthavila metre, and the Pyu words interspersed between the Sanskrit expressions are literal translations or in some cases longer explanations of Sanskrit originals. . . . The sense of the inscription, as I see it, is to record the erection of this statue (?) by the prince Jayacandravarman. In the first sloka is mentioned the creation in one day of two cities (one of which must be Hmawza) where apparently the venerable Guha or Guhad\u299 pa was preaching, and who was apparently the religious instructor of Jayacandravarman himself. The younger brother of the prince named Harivikrama (who was possibly ruling in the other city) was also associated (in the gift ?). There is mention of the increase of the feeling of mutual love probably between the two brothers (and the two cities) under the influence of the teacher. Verse 5 expresses the sentiment that the descendants, relations, etc., will not quarrel. . . . . . In the last verse the hope is expressed that the friendship between the two cities will continue to the end of the world, and the dear younger brother with his sons and descendants etc. is also referred to."\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs38 \cf0 G.H. Luce, 
\i Phases of Pre-Pagan Burma
\i0 , vol. 1 p. 65 with n. 22 on p. 74; p. 132; plates 16\'9617 in vol. 2.\

\i IB
\i0 , portfolio IV, plate 356a [IoB-Aleksey P1810534\'9639].\
A.H. Dani, 
\i Indian Palaeography
\i0 , 1963, pp. 243ff.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Tha Myat, 
\i Pyu Reader
\i0 , 1963, p. 41\'9643 (only face A, b and d).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Comparanda for Northern Brahmi\
	- Vainyagupta, GE 184 = 502/3 CE\
	- Mahanaman (587 CE): our <ha> and <la> is still of more archaic shape than in Mahanaman\
	- Tipperah\
	- Mundesvari: Bakker, The World, pl. 54 p. 234\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text
\b0 \
Provisional reading by Arlo Griffiths (initially with help from San Win, later with help from Yuko Yokochi). This reading is based on RTI images and the published estampages. The estampages reproduced in PPPB are better than the ones in IB, and seem to have been produced before the inscription suffered some damage. The RTI images, taken many decades later still, reveal that the stone has again suffered damaged.  On the left end of face A and the right end of face d, 1\'962 ak\uc0\u7779 aras have been lost since the time the IB estampages were made.\
\

\b Line 1
\b0 \

\b (1A) 
\i [ma](h)\uc0\u299 bhuj\u257 m\'b7
\i0\b0  tga\'b8\uc0\u7717  di\'b8\u7745  t\cf2 i\cf0 \uc0\u7745  pmi\cf2 C\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf0  \cf2 CVCV\cf0 \uc0\u7717  
\i\b \'b0unnata
\i0\b0  kdi\'b8l\'b7\uc0\u7745  tra va\'b8 kvi\'b8\u7745  
\i\b p\cf2 au\cf0 rusa
\i0\b0  \'b0u s\cf2 (C)\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 \u7717  pir\'b7\u7745  tga\'b8 
\i\b \uc0\u347 riy\u257 m
\b0 \'b7
\i0  \'b0u sri ya\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \u7717 \cf0  
\i\b \'b0idam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  ta\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745  
\i\b virodha
\i0\b0  tim\'b7\uc0\u7745  ka\u7749 \'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i \'b0
\b upa\uc0\u347 ama
\i0\b0  \'b0u pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7 dlim\'b7\u7717  
\i\b \'b0eka
\i0\b0  \'b0ik\'b7 \cf2 CCaC\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i\b (k)\uc0\u257 ra\u7751 a\u7745 
\i0\b0  \

\b (1b) 
\b0 ti\uc0\u7745  pla\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b \'b0ita\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  ya\uc0\u7745  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b pradh\uc0\u257 ryya
\i0\b0  dru\cf2 (n/t)\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  ta \u7749 ar\'b7\u7717  da\'b8m\'b7\u7717  
\i \'b0
\b \uc0\u257 yati
\i0\b0  \cf2 kn\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 (\cf2 n\cf0 )\'b7\uc0\u7717  \cf2 d\uc0\u363 (k\'b7)\u7745 \cf0 \

\b (1C) 
\b0 X X X X
\b  
\b0 \cf2 da\'b8 da\'b8\uc0\u7717  kdi\u7717 
\b \cf3  
\i \cf0 \'b0(\uc0\u257 )dh\u257 yi
\i0  
\b0 \cf2 da ta sdam\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 yena
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 pdi\'b8k\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf3  
\b \cf2 (pu\uc0\u7789 ena/sutena/\'b0a\u7789 ina)\cf3  
\b0 \cf2 tCV tCa\uc0\u7745  pu\u7749 \'b7\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 puradvayam\'b7
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0  ti\uc0\u7745  pri\u7749 \'b7\u7717  kni 
\i\b tam\'b7
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 po 
\i\b \'b0\uc0\u257 \cf4 s\cf0 r\cf2 a\cf4 va
\i0\b0 \cf0  ti\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  li\u7745  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X\

\b (1d) \cf2 \'b0
\b0 u\cf0  tcat\'b7 tc\cf2 a\cf0  
\i\b puradvaya
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745  pri\u7749 \'b7\u7717  kni 
\i\b \'b0ek\uc0\u257 ntahita
\i0\b0  tak\'b7\uc0\u7745  sca\u7749 \'b7\u7717  \'b0u pa\u7749 \'b7 hip\'b7 sya\u7745 
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf5 	1A. 
\i tga\'b8\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the same word, perhaps meaning \'91earth\'92, also occurs in 5d and in #17, l. 5.
\b \
	
\b0 1A. \'b0
\i idam\'b7 ta\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  below (2C, 4A, 5A, 5C), we repeatedly find the sequence 
\i na\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745 
\i0 , once somewhat unclearly but thrice without any possibility of doubt as to the reading 
\i n
\i0  rather than 
\i t
\i0 , after direct-case forms (
\i ayam
\i0 , 
\i imam
\i0 ) of the Sanskrit near-deictic pronoun, of which 
\i idam
\i0  is another instance. The reading 
\i t
\i0  here seems beyond doubt. We therefore have to consider the possibilities (a) that the difference 
\i ta\uc0\u7717 /na\u7717 
\i0  represents a linguistic reality, (b) that 
\i ta\uc0\u7717 
\i0  is a scribal error for 
\i na\uc0\u7717 
\i0 , or (c) that damage to the stone has caused an intended 
\i na
\i0  to take the shape of 
\i ta
\i0 .
\b \
	
\b0 1b. 
\i d\uc0\u363 (k\'b7)\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this word is tentatively read here on the assumption this line ends with the same word as 5d. Possible alternative here: 
\i dya
\i0 .\
	1C. 
\i \uc0\u257 dh\u257 yi
\i0  \uc0\u9671  if this reading is correct, meter indicates it has to be emended to 
\i adh\uc0\u257 yi
\i0 .
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 2\
(2A) 
\i\b0 (
\b \'b0u
\b0 )
\b pade\uc0\u347 inam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  \'b0u khon\'b7\uc0\u7717  ti\u7745  thmi\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  
\i \'b0
\b abhipra\uc0\u7751 amya
\i0\b0  \cf2 ga\uc0\u7745 \cf0 \uc0\u7717  dru\cf2 \uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  ta sba 
\i \'b0
\b aryyaguh\uc0\u257 dhip\u257 hvayam
\b0 \'b7 
\i0 \uc0\u7685 ay\'b7\u7745 \u7717  go\'b8 vam\'b7 kvi\'b8\u7745  \'b0u mi\u7749 \'b7 
\i \'b0
\b day\uc0\u257 nuk\u363 la
\b0  
\i0 ti\cf2 l\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  da\'b8\cf2 (C\'b7\uc0\u7745 )\cf0  ti\cf2 l\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  yav\'b7 \'b0u \cf2 vren\'b7\cf0  \cf2 crom\cf0 \'b7 
\i \'b0
\b agrasam\uc0\u257 dhil\u257 bhinam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  kdam\'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  ni\u7749 \'b7\u7745  sdin\'b7 tdi\cf2 \'b8\cf0 k\'b7 \'b0u kdi \uc0\u7685 ay\'b7\u7745 \u7717  di\cf2 \'b8\uc0\u7745 \cf0  \cf2 [||]\cf0  
\i\b y[ata\uc0\u7717 ]
\i0\b0 \

\b (2b)
\b0  (pd)i[\'b8]k\'b7\uc0\u7745  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b pra\cf2 vr\uc0\u805 \cf0 tya
\i0\b0  dru\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7717  ta p\cf2 u\cf0  tum\'b7 
\i \'b0
\b abhyuday\uc0\u257 ya
\i0\b0  \'b0u pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7 t(\cf2 d\uc0\u363 \cf0 )\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7717  kli\u7745 \u7717  \'b0u pla\u7745 \u7717  \

\b (2C)
\b0 \cf3  \cf2 X X X X X 
\i\b mCVX
\i0\b0  X X X X 
\i\b \cf0 m\cf2 vu\cf0 ja
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \'b0u pla\uc0\u7745 \u7717  tra\u7717  sdi tdi\cf2 \uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7\cf3  
\i\b \cf2 C\uc0\u299 dhar\u257 sthita\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \'b0u X \cf2 du\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf3  \cf0 \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  ta tdi\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  
\i \'b0
\b ayam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  (na)\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745  
\i\b kriy\uc0\u257 
\i0\b0  tsa\uc0\u7717  
\i\b k\uc0\u257 ra\u7751 ay\u257 
\i0\b0  \cf2 ti\uc0\u7745  [X X X X X X]\

\b \cf0 (2d) 
\b0 tda\'b8v\'b7\uc0\u7717  
\i\b \uc0\u347 r\u299 jayacandravarmma\u7751 \u257 
\i0\b0  srijan\'b7travar\'b7ma kvi\'b8\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 \'b0u m(i)\uc0\u7749 \'b7 ||\cf2  
\i \cf0 \'b0
\b ata\uc0\u7717 
\i0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf5 	2A. 
\i aryyaguh\uc0\u257 dhip\u257 hvayam
\i0  \uc0\u9671  emend \'b0
\i \uc0\u257 ryya-
\i0 . The Pyu gloss go\'b8 confirms the otherwise slightly uncertain reading 
\i guh\uc0\u257 
\i0  in the Sanskrit name. See PYU007, l. 20 / 08, l. \cb6 XX\cb1  for the 
\i guh\uc0\u257 /go
\i0  correspondence.\
	2A. 
\i (y)[ata\uc0\u7717 ]
\i0  \uc0\u9671  restoration proposed on the basis of the Pyu gloss, where 
\i pi\uc0\u7745 \u7717 n
\i0 \'b7 stands for -
\i tas
\i0 , and several cases of Skt. relative pronoun being glossed with 
\i pdi\'b8k\uc0\u7745 
\i0 .\
	2b. 
\i pravr\uc0\u805 tya
\i0  \uc0\u9671  could the reading rather be 
\i prabhr\uc0\u805 tya
\i0 , and might the gloss be identical to that for 
\i prabhr\uc0\u805 tyeva
\i0  in 3A?\
	2b. 
\i pu 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the reading 
\i pu
\i0  is almost certainly incorrect, as shape of subscribed 
\i u
\i0  is not like this in Pyu. Same problem in 3A.\
	2b.
\i  t(d\uc0\u363 )\u7749 \'b7\u7717 
\i0 \cf0  \cf5 \uc0\u9671  or read 
\i tlu\uc0\u7749 
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7717 
\i0 ? Our reading after rather clear case of 
\i td\uc0\u363 \u7749 
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7717 
\i0  in PYU020.1.7.\
	2C. 
\i mvuja
\i0 : it would be possible to read 
\i p\uc0\u257 d\u257 mvuja
\i0 , for instance. Then 
\i p\uc0\u299 \u7789 ham \u257 sthita\u7717 
\i0 ?\
	2C. 
\i (na)\uc0\u7717  y\u257 \u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the first word is hard to read but seems secure because the same expression is used to gloss Skt. 
\i ayam
\i0  and 
\i imam
\i0  in 4A, 5A and 5C.\
	2d. 
\i srijan\'b7travar\'b7ma
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this gloss does not represent the element 
\i jaya
\i0  in the Sanskrit name Jayacandravarman.\
	2d. 
\i kvi\'b8\uc0\u7745  \'b0u m(i)\u7749 
\i0 \'b7: the reading is secure because of occurrence of the same sequence in 2A, although the shape of vocalisation 
\i i
\i0  in 
\i mi\uc0\u7749 
\i0 \'b7 is unusual; one has the impression the engraver started with the shape of 
\i repha
\i0  as seen in Sanskrit \'b0
\i va
\b r
\b0 mma\uc0\u7751 \u257 
\i0  until he realized he ought to be engraving Pyu and not Sanskrit here.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 3\
(3A) 
\b0 ya\uc0\u7745  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b prabh\cf2 r\uc0\u805 \cf0 tyeva
\i0\b0  dru\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7717  ta p\cf2 u \cf0 (t)um\'b7\cf2  l\cf0 o\uc0\u7717  
\i\b vig\uc0\u257 \u7693 ha
\i0\b0  tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 da\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  ga\'b8 
\i\b ni\uc0\u347 caya\u7717 
\i0\b0  \'b0u tdo\'b8\cf2 (p)\cf0 \'b7 \cf2 tdam\'b7\uc0\u7717 \cf0  
\i\b paraspara
\i0\b0  ti\uc0\u7745 m\'b7 da\u7749 \'b7\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  ra 
\i\b pr\uc0\u299 tirasa
\i0\b0  \'b0u \cf2 ki\uc0\u7745 n\cf0 \'b7 k\cf2 Ce\uc0\u7749 \cf0 \'b7 \'b0u kdi\'b8v\'b7\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 kha\cf2 v\cf0 \'b7\cf2  di\'b8n\cf0 \'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  
\i \'b0
\b upagh\uc0\u257 tinam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  k\cf2 c\cf0 e \cf2 kga\'b8\cf0  
\i \'b0
\b aham
\b0 \'b7
\i0  gay\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  
\i\b na
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 a\u7717  
\i\b bh\uc0\u363 ya\u7717 
\i0\b0  g\cf2 (i/o)t\'b7 X
\b \cf0  \
(3b)
\b0  
\i (
\b ka)rav\uc0\u257 \u7751 i
\b0  
\i0 ta pli\uc0\u7745 \u7717  sa\u7745 \u7717  tim\'b7\u7745  ka\u7749 \'b7\u7745  
\i\b sah\uc0\u257 nuja
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7 n\u7685 un\'b7\u7717  mroy\'b7\u7717  
\i\b \uc0\u347 r\u299 h\u257 rivikra[me]- 
\i0\b0 \

\b (3C) 
\i [\uc0\u7751 a ca]
\i0  
\b0 ? ? ? ? sriharivi(k\'b7)krama \'b0u mi\uc0\u7749 \'b7 || 
\i\b bhaveyu\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 le\uc0\u7717  \cf0 kha \'b0u\cf2  \cf0 ka(p)\'b7\cf2  \cf0 r\cf2 \uc0\u363 \cf0 \uc0\u7717 
\i  
\b \'b0\cf2 asmat\'b7
\i0 \cf3  
\b0 \cf2 gay\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 puna\uc0\u7717 
\i0 \cf2  
\b0 kda\uc0\u7717 \cf3  
\i \cf0 \'b0
\b \uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u347 u [ni]\cf0 \uc0\u347 caye
\i0\b0  \cf2 pdi\'b8k\'b7\uc0\u7745  ga sa\u7717  pli\cf0  va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf2  hno 
\i\b \cf0 saputtrasant\uc0\u257 na
\i0\b0 \cf2  \cf0 ? ? /// ? ? ? ? ? ? [tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 ]\cf3 \

\b \cf0 (3d) 
\b0 \uc0\u7685 un\'b7\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 tim\'b7\uc0\u7745  tak\'b7 ki\u7745 \cf2  kha\cf0  hvu(\'b8)\cf2  
\i\b \cf0 na te
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 a\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 po\cf2  \cf0 va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b virotsyanti
\i0\b0 \cf2  lam\'b7 \cf0 hli\uc0\u7745 \u7717  ska\u7749 \'b7\u7745  \cf2 m\cf0 r\cf2 a\cf0  va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf5 	3A. 
\i prabhr\uc0\u805 tyeva 
\i0 \uc0\u9671  or read 
\i prabhutyeva
\i0 ? \
	3A. 
\i paraspara
\i0  \uc0\u9671  it would be possible to read here 
\i paraspara\uc0\u7745 
\i0 , but we consider the ostensible 
\i anusv\uc0\u257 ra
\i0  an accidental unevenness in the stone.\
	3b 
\i \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7
\i0  \uc0\u9671  see 4A and 6A.\
	3C. 
\i \'b0asmat\'b7  
\i0 \uc0\u9671  the only alternative we see for reading these very poorly preserved ak\u7779 aras is 
\i \uc0\u257 bhy\u257 m\'b7
\i0 .\
	3C. 
\i saputtrasant\uc0\u257 na
\b  
\i0\b0 \uc0\u9671  or
\i  \'b0putra\'b0
\i0 ? The writing being too faded here to determine the precise spelling, we follow the spelling clearly observed in 4A.\
	3C. 
\i [tim\'b7\uc0\u7745 ]
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the restoration follows from repeated occurrence of 
\i tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  \u7685 un\'b7\u7717  tim\'b7\u7745 
\i0  in 4A.\
	3d. 
\i kha
\i0  \uc0\u9671  this syllable, reoccurring beside 
\i ki\uc0\u7745 
\i0  several times below, might also be read 
\i ce
\i0 . Same sequence 
\i ki\uc0\u7745  kha/ce
\i0  occurs in the urn inscriptions.
\b \

\b0 	3d. 
\i hvu(\'b8)
\i0  \uc0\u9671  for the allograph of -
\i u
\i0  attached to subscript -
\i v
\i0 -, see several cases in PYU005 and 006.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 4\
(4A) 
\i (paraspar\uc0\u257 )tmajai\u7717 
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 a(y\'b7)\u7745 \u7717  \cf7 la \cf0 sa\uc0\u7717  \cf2 pli\uc0\u7745 \cf0  \cf7 da\'b8\uc0\u7745 \cf0  va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b saputtrasant\uc0\u257 na
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda\u7749 \'b7 sa\u7717  tin\'b7\u7745  \u7685 un\'b7\u7717  tim\'b7\u7745  ta(k\'b7) 
\i\b parampar\uc0\u257 gatai\u7717 
\i0\b0  tin\'b7\uc0\u7745  \u7685 un\'b7\u7717  ti(m\'b7)\u7745  \cf2 d(e/a)k\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717 \cf0  ki\uc0\u7745  \cf2 kha\cf0  hvu\'b8 ca\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7 ca\'b8\u7749 \'b7 || 
\i\b \'b0imam\'b7
\i0  
\b0 \cf8 na\uc0\u7717 
\b \cf0  
\b0 ya\uc0\u7745  
\i\b sa(d\uc0\u257 c\u257 )ra
\i0\b0  mra\cf2 (k\'b7)\cf0  sdi\uc0\u7749 \'b7 (\cf2 \'b0\uc0\u363 \cf0 ) got\'b7 
\i\b path\uc0\u257 gatam\'b7
\i0\b0  \'b0u ?
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 (4b)
\b0  \cf2 Ci\cf0 m\'b7\uc0\u7717 
\b  
\b0 pin\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  ki\u7745  \cf2 kha\cf0  
\i\b vidhim\'b7
\i0  
\b0 ti\uc0\u7745  krin\'b7\u7745  ti\u7745  sca th\u7749 am\'b7\u7717  tin\'b7\u7745  ti di\'b8n\'b7\u7745  
\i\b caranti
\i0\b0  lam\'b7 pgo\cf2 C\'b7\cf0 \uc0\u7745 
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 (4C)\cf2  
\i \cf0 ye
\i0 \cf2  
\b0 [pdi\'b8k\'b7\uc0\u7745 ]\cf0  \cf2 ? ? ? pa 
\i\b patraga\cf0 sambhav\uc0\u257 [ya]
\i0 \cf3  
\b0 \cf2 ? go s(g/\uc0\u7685 )a(l/k)\'b7 \cf0 mroy\'b7\uc0\u7717  pin\'b7\u7745 \u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 te
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 hiC\'b7 \uc0\u7685 a \cf0 va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 bhavantu
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 (pa\uc0\u7745 /le\u7717 ) \cf0 kha \'b0u\cf2  ka(p\'b7)\cf3  \cf0 r\uc0\u363 \u7717 \cf3  
\i\b \cf0 satve
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \'b0u \cf2 phnot\'b7 
\i\b \cf0 niruj\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 \uc0\u7685 a\cf2  \cf0 kca\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 cir\uc0\u257 yusa\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf0 dro\uc0\u7749 \'b7 h\cf2 \uc0\u7771 \cf0  @@@@ 
\i\b sa\cf2 (d\uc0\u257 )
\i0 \cf3  
\b0 \cf2 X X X X /// X X 
\b [\'b0
\i u
\i0 -]
\b0 \

\b \cf0 (4d)
\b0 \cf2  
\i\b \cf0 daya
\i0\b0  \'b0u kdi\'b8\cf2 r\'b7\cf0 \uc0\u7745  tra va\'b8 
\i \'b0
\b artthasiddhaya\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  \'b0u pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7\cf2  splu\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7717  \cf0 kli\uc0\u7745 \u7717  khmi\u7749 \'b7\cf2  \cf0 kta va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7\u7745  ||
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf5 	4A. 
\i mra(k\'b7) sdi\uc0\u7749 \'b7 (\'b0\u363 ) got\'b7
\i0  \uc0\u9671  note same sequence in 5A.\
	4A. 
\i (\'b0\uc0\u363 )
\i0   \uc0\u9671  the sign we encounter here is the one we normally transliterate <\'b0u> with an appendix of the left-turning type we normally transliterate <-u> or <-\u7771 >.\
	4b. 
\i pgoC\'b7\uc0\u7745 
\i0 : presence of final 
\i y
\i0  as in PYU020 
\i pgoy
\i0  seems doubtful.
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 5\
(5A) 
\i (v)i[la]\uc0\u7749 ghito
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 i\cf2 n\'b7\cf0 \uc0\u7745 \u7717  to bak\'b7\u7745  tva\'b8n\'b7\u7717  
\i\b yai\uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  pdi\'b8k\'b7\uc0\u7745  va\'b8\u7749 \'b7 
\i \'b0
\b ayam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  na\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745  
\i \'b0
\b \uc0\u257 ryyagocaro
\i0\b0  \cf2 m\cf0 ra\cf2 (\uc0\u7749 )\'b7\cf0  sdi\cf2 k\cf0 \'b7\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  \'b0u go\cf7 t\cf0 \'b7 hek\'b7 
\i\b bhavantu
\i0\b0  \cf2 p\cf0 a\uc0\u7745  \cf2 kha \'b0u\cf0  ka\cf2 (p\'b7)\cf0  r\uc0\u363 \u7745 \u7717  
\i\b te
\i0\b0  \cf2 p\uc0\u257  \cf0 va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b vigrahak\uc0\u257 ryya
\i0\b0  tim\'b7\uc0\u7745  ka\u7749 \'b7\u7745  tim\'b7\u7745  va\'b8\u7749 \'b7 \cf2 p\cf0 rat\'b7 pa\uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b vibhram\cf2 a\cf0 \uc0\u7717 
\i0\b0  kmu\uc0\u7749 \'b7 kmi\cf2 n\cf0 \'b7\uc0\u7745  
\i\b nirantara
\i0\b0  \cf2 (da)\cf0  sar\'b7 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 (5b)
\b0  \cf2 Xk\'b7 nar\'b7\cf0  
\i\b vy\uc0\u257 dhipar\u299 tam\u363 rttaya\u7717 
\i0\b0  kca \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  \cf2 d\cf0 in\'b7\uc0\u7745 \u7717  \cf2 t\cf0 ci(n)\'b7\uc0\u7745  kvi\'b8\u7745  \'b0u hya\u7717  
\i\b sad\uc0\u257 
\i0\b0  \cf2 n\cf0 \uc0\u7749 a\cf2 m\cf0 \'b7 \cf2 d\uc0\u363 k\'b7\u7745 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (5C) 
\b0 \cf3  \cf2 X X X ti\uc0\u7745  dro kdiC\'b7\u7745  \'b0u hla du\u7749 \'b7 
\i\b nicaXdhi\uc0\u347 r\u363 ya
\i0  
\b0 X X \'b0u kdi kna\cf3  \cf0 ||
\b  
\i \'b0ayam\'b7
\i0  
\b0 na\uc0\u7717  ya\u7745 
\b  
\i \cf2 (\uc0\u347 ra)y\u257  k\u257 ra\u7751 a ya\u7717 
\i0\b0 \cf3  \cf2 nsi\uc0\u7717  ti\u7745  ya\u7717  \'b0u krin\'b7\u7745   
\i\b ta\uc0\u347 raiva
\i0\b0  X X naddho\cf3  
\i\b \cf0 te 
\i0\b0 p\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0  va\'b8\uc0\u7749 \'b7 \cf2 X X X\cf3 \

\b \cf0 (5d)
\b0  
\i\b sauhr\uc0\u805 dam
\b0 \'b7
\i0  \'b0u \uc0\u7685 i\u7749 \'b7\u7745 \u7717  kha\cf2  tko\uc0\u7717  \cf0 hak\'b7 \'b0u hli\uc0\u7717  
\i\b \'b0\uc0\u257  bhuva sthite\u7717 
\i0\b0  tga\'b8\cf2 m\'b7\cf0 \uc0\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 \'b0u tco\cf2 C\'b7\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf5 	5A. 
\i vibhrama\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  or is it possible to read 
\i vibhram\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0 ?\
	5b. 
\i din
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7745 \u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  or perhaps 
\i vin
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7745 \u7717 
\i0 .\
	5c. 
\i \'b0u hya\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  the two short inscriptions on silver bowls PYU47-48 show this same expression.\
	5b. 
\i n\uc0\u7749 am\'b7
\i0  
\i d\uc0\u363 k
\i0 \'b7
\i \uc0\u7745 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  cf. the end of 1b? And cf. 6A: the expression, whatever its correct reading (
\i n\uc0\u7749 am\'b7/t\u7749 am\'b7
\i0 , 
\i d\uc0\u363 \u7745 k/du\'b8k
\i0 ), must mean \'91always\'92.\
	5C. For the uncertain syllables provisionally read 
\i (\uc0\u347 ra)y\u257  k\u257 ra\u7751 a ya\u7717 
\i0 , cf. 
\i kriy\uc0\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 ay\u257 
\i0  in 2C.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b\fs38 \cf0 \
Line 6\
(6A) 
\b0 \cf2 h\uc0\u257 \u7717  k(y/m)a\cf0  
\i\b priy\uc0\u257 nujen\u257 pi
\i0\b0  \'b0u \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  kro\cf2 (\uc0\u7717 )\cf0  tsa\uc0\u7717  to\cf2 m\cf0 \'b7 
\i\b sad\uc0\u257 
\i0\b0  \cf2 n\cf0 \uc0\u7749 a\cf2 m\cf0 \'b7 du\cf2 \'b8k\cf0 \'b7 
\i\b \'b0anuvartyate
\i0\b0  \uc0\u7685 i\u7745 \u7717  na\cf2 \uc0\u7717 \cf0  pg\cf2 \uc0\u257 \u7749 \cf0 \'b7 
\i\b sah\uc0\u257 nujai[\u7717 ]
\i0\b0  \cf2 (\uc0\u7749 i\u7745 )\cf0  \cf2 kda na\uc0\u7717  ta\cf0  
\i\b puttra
\i0\b0  \'b0u sa\uc0\u7717  C\'b7 
\i\b kula
\i0\b0  \'b0u \cf2 dru\uc0\u7717  pno\u7717  
\i\b \cf0 kram\uc0\u257 nugai\u7717 
\i0\b0  \'b0u \cf2 ca\uc0\u7745 \u7717  ca\u7745 \u7717  ka\u7749 \'b7 ka Ci\cf0  va ||@\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs36 \cf0 	
\fs28 \cf5 6A. 
\i (\uc0\u7749 i\u7745 ) kda na\u7717  ta
\i0  \uc0\u9671  cf. 
\i \uc0\u7749 it\'b7\u7745  kda (n)\u7685 un\'b7\u7717  mroy\'b7\u7717 
\i0  in 3b. In that light, my provisional reading is no doubt to be emended.\

\fs36 \cf0 \
SANSKRIT STANZAS ARRANGED METRICALLY\
\
METER: VA\uc0\u7744 \u346 ASTHAVILA (4 \'d7 12 syllables with pattern 
\fs28 \uc0\u9169  - \u9169  - - \u9169  \u9169  - \u9169  - \u9169  -)
\fs36 \

\fs28 \
I.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 [ma](h)\uc0\u299 bhuj\u257 m\cf7  \cf0 unnatapaurusa\uc0\u347 riy\u257 m\
ida\uc0\u7745  virodhopa\u347 amaikak\u257 ra\u7751 a\u7745 \
ita\uc0\u7717  pradh\u257 ry\u257 yati \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf2 (\uc0\u257 )\cf0 dh\uc0\u257 yi yena \u9169  \u9169  \'96 puradvayam\'b7 ||\
	a. \'b0
\i paurusa
\i0 \'b0 \uc0\u9671  correct \'b0
\i pauru\uc0\u7779 a
\i0 \'b0.\
	d. 
\i \cf2 (\uc0\u257 )\cf0 dh\uc0\u257 yi
\i0   \uc0\u9671  if the reading is correct, then emend 
\i adh\uc0\u257 yi
\i0 .\
	\
\'91This is the unique cause of the cessation of strife between kings whose lustre is due to lofty valor. Having reflected on this ... posterity ... by which the Two Cities have been established ...\'92.\
	
\i puradvaya
\i0 : Vinayas\uc0\u363 tra 17.114: 
\i atirecana\uc0\u7747  gandhaku\u7789 iv\u257 t\u257 grapotikayo\u7717  puradvayena
\i0 .\
\
II.\
tam \uc0\u257 \cf2 srava\cf0  \'96 \uc0\u9169  \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96\
puradvayaik\uc0\u257 ntahitopade\u347 inam\
abhipra\uc0\u7751 amy\u257 ryaguh\u257 dhip\u257 hvayam\
day\uc0\u257 nuk\u363 l\u257 grasam\u257 dhil\u257 bhinam ||\
\
\'91Having bowed to the one called \uc0\u256 ryaguh\u257 dhipa, who teaches exclusively what is good for the Two Cities ... \cf2 affliction (
\i \uc0\u257 srava
\i0 )\cf0 , who is inclined to compassion and obtains the best meditation.\'92\
	
\i agrasam\uc0\u257 dhi
\i0 : cf. \uc0\u346 ik\u7779 \u257 samuccaya, ed. Bendall p. 327 (with 
\i kriy\uc0\u257 
\i0  in context), 328, 333, 343.\
\
III. \
\cf2 y[ata\uc0\u7717 ]\cf0  pra\cf2 v\cf0 r\uc0\u805 ty\u257 bhyuday\u257 ya \'96 \u9169  \'96\
\uc0\u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96 \'96 \cf2 mvujaC\uc0\u299 dhar\u257 sthita\u7717 \cf3 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 aya\uc0\u7745  kriy\u257 k\u257 ra\u7751 ay\u257  \u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96\
\uc0\u9169  \'96 \u9169  \'96 \u347 r\u299 jayacandravarma\u7751 \u257  ||\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	c. The clue to restoration must come from VIIIc, which is alas also damaged.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\'91Having proceeded from him, for prosperity ..., this one dwelling on ... lotus ..., action and cause ... by \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jayacandravarman.\'92\
	Is there some word-play on \'91sunrise\'92 (
\i abhyudaya
\i0 ), \'91lotus\'92 (
\i amvuja
\i0 , reading extremely uncertain), and the element \'91moon\'92 in the name of Jayacandravarman?\cf2 \
\
\cf0 IV.\
ata\uc0\u7717  prabhr\u805 ty eva vig\u257 \u7693 hani\u347 caya\u7717 \
parasparapr\uc0\u299 tirasopagh\u257 tinam\
aha\uc0\u7745  na bh\u363 ya\u7717  karav\u257 \u7751 i [vigraham]\
sah\uc0\u257 nuja\u347 r\u299 h\u257 rivikra[me\u7751 a ca] ||\cf3  \
\cf0 	c.  
\i [vigraham]
\i0  \uc0\u9671  three syllables are lacking here; Yuko Yokochi proposes to restore 
\i vigraham
\i0 . This hypothesis is significantly strengthened by the fact that the same Pyu syllables seem to be used immediately after 
\i vigrahak\uc0\u257 ryya
\i0  in 5A, and before 
\i sah\uc0\u257 nuja
\i0  in 3b.\
	d. 
\i \'b0h\uc0\u257 ri\'b0
\i0  \uc0\u9671  emend \'b0hari\'b0.\
\
\'91And henceforward, having fully adopted [this] resolve, I must no longer engage with my younger brother \uc0\u346 r\u299  Harivikrama in conflict, that hurts [our] delight in affection for each other.\'92\
\
V\cf3 .\
\cf0 bhaveyur\cf3  \cf2 asmat\cf3  \cf0 punar\cf3  \cf2 \uc0\u257 \u347 u [ni]\u347 caye\cf3 \
\cf0 saputrasant\uc0\u257 na[parampar] \'96 \u9169  \'96\
na te virotsyanti (paraspar\uc0\u257 )tmajai\u7717  \
saputrasant\uc0\u257 naparampar\u257 gatai\u7717  || \
\
\'91Under the condition of such a resolve, we will soon have again a lineage with descendance of sons \'85: they will not contend with each other\'92s sons who will have come down in lineage with descendance of sons.\'92\
\
VI.\
ima\uc0\u7745  sa(d\u257 c\u257 )rapath\u257 gata\u7745  vidhim\
caranti \cf2 ye patragasambhav\uc0\u257 ya te\cf3  \
\cf0 bhavantu satve niruj\uc0\u257 \u7717  cir\u257 yusa\u7717  \cf3 \
\cf0 sa\cf2 (d\uc0\u257 )\cf0  \uc0\u9169  \'96\cf3  \cf0 \'96 \cf2 [u]\cf0 day\uc0\u257 rtthasiddhaya\u7717  ||\
	c. \'b0
\i cir\uc0\u257 yusah
\i0 \'b0 \uc0\u9671  correct \'b0
\i cir\uc0\u257 yu\u7779 a\u7717 
\i0 .\
\
\'91Those who practice this rule transmitted along the path of good conduct / of those of good conduct, they will become ... . Let them be healthy in spirit (
\i sattva
\i0 ?), long-lived, always ... rise, wealth, success.\'92\
\
VII.\
vila\uc0\u7749 ghito yair ayam \u257 ryagocaro \
bhavantu te vigrahak\uc0\u257 ryavibhrama\u7717 \
nirantaravy\uc0\u257 dhipar\u299 tam\u363 rtaya\u7717  \
sad\uc0\u257  \cf3  ... \cf2 hita X dhi\uc0\u347 r\u363 ya[te]\cf3  \cf0 ||\cf3 \
\cf0 	b. 
\i vibhrama\uc0\u7717 
\i0  \uc0\u9671  emend 
\i vibhram\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0 .\
\
\'91Those by whom this noble dwelling place (or: 
\i gocara
\i0  = code of conduct?) is transgressed, let them be be restless with the tasks of war, their bodies afflicted by incessant disease, always ... .\'92  \
\
VIII.\cf3 \
\cf0 aya\uc0\u7745  \cf2 \uc0\u347 ray\u257  k\u257 ra\u7751 a ya\u7717  \cf0 \uc0\u9169  \cf3 \'96\cf0  \uc0\u9169  \cf3 \'96\
\cf0 \uc0\u9169  \cf2 te\cf0  \uc0\u9169  \cf3 \'96\cf0  sauhr\uc0\u805 dam \u257  bhuva(\u7717 ) sthite\u7717  \
priy\uc0\u257 nujen\u257 pi sad\u257 nuvartyate\
sah\uc0\u257 nujai[\u7717 ] putrakulakram\u257 nugai\u7717  ||\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	a. The clue to restoration must come from IIIc, which is alas also damaged.\
\
\'91This ... friendship as long as the earth shall last, is always pursued also by a dear younger brother, together with younger brothers descending in turn from the families of sons.\'92\
\
\
NOTES YUKO\
The meaning of these verses is difficult to find. Jayacandravarman seems to be the main donor of this inscription. He once had a quarrel with his yonger brother Harivikrama(?), but they now become reconciled and agree that they with their children will never quarrel again. Something like this is meant, I think.\
\
I: This provides a nice Sanskrit compound `virodhopa"samaikakaara.nam'. This expression seems to suggest that the Buddha statue (and maybe the temple) was installed for the commemoration of the peace treaty between two brothers and the two cities they were ruling. This is underlined with the phrase `aha.m na bhuuya.h karavaa.ni ... sahaanuja...'. Dik.sit mentions only the increase of the mutual affection between the two brothers, but I think that is preceded by some strife between them. \
\
I am not so strong in palaeographic dating. What I can say that the script looks very similar to some Gupta inscriptions possibly dated in the 6th century (One is the Barbar hill inscription of the Maukhari prince Anantavarman and the other is the Mu\uc0\u7751 \u7693 e\u347 var\u299  Hill inscription Hans is dealing with in the IIJ epigraphy proceedings). Anantavarman's inscription is usually dated to the early 6th century and Hans ascribes the latter to the second half of the 6th century (and the first half of the seventh cent.), based on Neuss\'92s article. This script appears to be closer to the latter, but it is difficult to decide. \'a0Neuss's paper about the Mu\u7751 \u7693 e\u347 var\u299  inscription may be useful, because he compares the script of several inscriptions around the 6th century in the Northeast India, though Hans is partly critical to his manner of dating. I attach the pdf file of his paper.\
\
OTHER NOTES\
Note occurrence of a Mahadevi Sri Jatra in PYU17 and a Ja(n)tradevi on in PYU18. Cf. spelling of Jayacandravarman\'92s name. Maybe Jayacandravarman\'92s wife?\
See Prabhuvarman in Great Silver Reliquary.\
\
\
}